The Joe Rogan experience.
This is from 1964. What is it?
It's a FOIA re request made for the freedom of information act freedom of
information act for the file of Barack Husain,
Obama senior,
as a graduate student in the economics department at Harvard university, okay.
Obama has passed his general exams, which indicates that on academic grounds,
he's entitled to stay around here and write his thesis. However,
they are going to try to cook something up,
to ease him out
all three, that is all three Harvard. People will have to agree on this.
However,
they are planning on telling him that they will not give him any money and that
he had better returned to Kenya and prepare his thesis at home,
which means he will never get his PhD. Remember when they said,
take a break to you. This is my Alma mater.
This is the thing I an UN you know,
there's this whole story about what happened in my early life and why I don't
talk about it publicly.
And this is why this is interacting with your story about joke thry,
because it's weird for a comic, not to turn that into a joke. And it,
wasn't funny to you in around, I don't know,
19 88, 19 89 Harvard university, me
to remain in good standing in this program.
You cannot live in Massachusetts. Why? And I said,
what, how can you tell me where I can live and where I can't live?
It wasn't until somebody foiled Barack Obama's father
in his file.
And I read this story that I realized that Harvard has a program for how it gets
rid of people. It wants to get rid of who are in good standing.
It makes a move. It makes them move so that they can't complete their thesis.
Why'd they wanna do that with you? Um,
probably because I'm disabled as the day is long,
probably because I took a,
an unpopular stance that the equations that people were working with called the
Donaldson theory,
self dual equations were not the right equations to be working with.
And that we had somehow been assuming that they were highly peculiar to
dimension four. And that the difficulty of the equations,
which was what was giving us all these great results I had effectively gotten on
the wrong side. I proposed some equations that were, I was told,
were insufficiently non-linear nevermind. What? That means that in 1994,
effectively the same equations took over the entire field,
whatever it was. And this is like part of the idea of reclaiming your own story.
It was so crazy that a university would tell me what state I could
live in.
Can I stop you? So the people that are telling you this, yeah.
They're operating on a preexisting solution to deal
with people that they find undesirable, correct or problematic if you.
A thousand of them.
Right? So it's written somewhere or.
Something. I don't know. Or it's you knows like people maintain. For example,
one way of, um,
<affirmative> getting rid of a tenured professor that's known is,
is that you ask the person to report on their research and you load them up with
teaching and you give them a lousy office.
And then eventually they'll just quit because you make their life. Hell. Oh.
So people know that there are these kind of secret,
quiet ways to do the undoable.
Can I ask you this?
What did you think about Cornell west being denied tenure from Harvard?
First of all, I thought I assumed, yeah, he already had it. I mean,
Cornell west is this loved intellectual.
When, when I found out they denied him tenure,
I was like, what the, what, how do you,
how do you deny Cornell west tenure? Like, what is that?
What did you think about.
That? I, first of all, am not knowledgeable in that area.
I think of him as a very bright superstar of some sort of
part academic part, social crossover, high impact human being. Yeah,
I was there when Larry Summers was president of, um, Harvard,
when he went out and said,
effectively too many people are using the Harvard label and we're going to be
reigning it in and going back to hard rigor and basics.
Let me tell you what people don't understand about Harvard.
Harvard is two separate structures F together.
One is about power and one is about achievement.
And the two of them are interlinked in a way that cannot be separated
it without the achievement,
Harvard wouldn't have this kind of glowing reputation that causes us to sort of
<inaudible> over it historically, right? Without the power,
it wouldn't be able to attract the money and it wouldn't be able to constantly
position itself. So through achievement,
it gets enough cache to wield power through the power.
It gets the resources to buy achievement.
And this sort of thing is not understood.
And I've been in both sides of this thing.
Like one of the things that happened, um,
was that the BOS commission in 1996,
tried to figure out how to cut social security and raise taxes without getting
caught because that's the third rail of politics.
And what they said is if we change the CPI, the consumer price index,
the way we measure inflation, because tax brackets are indexed.
And because entitlement payments for social security and Medicare are indexed.
If we claim that social security, sorry,
if we claim that inflation is overstated by 1.1 percentage points,
we will gain a trillion dollars in savings and the
public won't be able to object to it because we're gonna be just adjusting a
dial.
We're gonna say that this dial was broken and we got some technocrats to fix it.
So they figured out we wanna get a trillion dollars. Over 10 years,
they backed out that would require 1.1% overstatement.
They broke into two teams. One team came up with 0.5.
One team came up with 0.6 0.5 plus 0.6 equals 1.1,
totally fictitious.
They got a tr they got a proposal for a trillion dollars that they were gonna
steal effectively from social security.
And they described this act publicly Robert Gordon,
who is one of the five Boskin commissioners. Um, Jamie,
could you bring up something called Boskin wild versus mild?
They brag about these things.
Power wants to explain just how powerful it is.
And you remember the scene in the big short,
where they're talking to these guys in Florida and saying,
why are they confessing? And somebody says, they're not confessing.
They're bragging. It's a question of what are you proud that you're able to do?
Right?
So until Robert Gordon did this PowerPoint presentation,
we did not have understand what happened to the work that I did with my wife in
economics,
which is that we were trying to show how you could actually compute the,
the consumer price index objectively using gauge theory
the same year they were trying to figure out how do we steal a trillion dollars
over 10 years, by doing funny games with the gauge called an inflation.
Do you, do you find the wild versus the mild? Yeah, I did.
It's just loading a PDF and it's like taking, I bailed. It's like I found,
so this thing perfect. If you go to, um,
uh, go about five or six slides in,
mm we'll see other that works. Okay.
1, 2, 3, keep going five. You find the word somehow,
keep going. Okay. Dale said one point,
1% implies 1 trillion in silver, social security savings. Over 10 years,
somehow our separate efforts came up with the 1.1% bias
number. In other words,
they came up with the target, which is let's save trillion dollars.
And then they came up with, we have to say, it's overstated by 1.1,
we then broke into two groups and somehow keyword,
we put them numbers together and we got the target.
This is academic malpractice practice in the absolute extreme.
When Harvard was doing that,
it was acting in its power capacity and the way they did it was they buried.
What I think is probably the best work in 25 to 50 years in mathematical
economics that happened in the Harvard economics department, which is a second.
So called marginal revolution,
where we changed the calculus underneath all of economic theory.
So how does something like this happen? Is there a concerted effort?
Did they get together? And they, they have this idea.
This is how we're gonna do.
Five person commission behind closed doors that meets at the
cousin's house of somebody on the commission in Florida.
And in another presentation on in Florida, Florida,
man <laugh> and another presentation. They say,
we solve this at the kitchen table of my cousin's house in Florida.
And you're just thinking like <affirmative> okay. So it's five guys,
Bob Packwood and Daniel, Patrick Monahan, Democrat, and Republican got together.
He picked five economists who were willing to play the dirty game.
The dirty game broke into two teams. They knew exactly what they had to do.
They found the results to put them together, to put in front of Congress,
to put in front of the national academy.
Were they ever held accountable for.
This? No.
There's an entire book called the physics of wall street in which my wife and
I are chapter 10 and the epilogue, which it talks about,
they made Weinstein and Milani go away. Right.
So what I'm trying to talk to you about is like this,
this experience for me, I've now ever talked about this with anyone I've never,
I mean, I've talked to tons of people privately.
This is gonna go out into the world. I was, you know, you know this question,
like, what has Eric Weinstein ever done? I did that.
I did the marginal revolution. He engaged theory.
Stop, stop. No, no stop. Stop. That question is Tim Dylan joking around? Yeah,
I know. He said, what did he, he never created the, he was, was very foing.
He was around.
That was the funny part about it. He was joking.
But he's saying that because he knows you're brilliant.
You understand the only reason why he can say that if you were a loser, he.
Couldn't say, Joe, you don't need to make me feel good about myself. I know.
But.
You brought it up again. No.
I'm I'm saying something completely different. Okay. Okay.
I actually have been scared of this question. What question?
That Tim's question taken seriously? Who? Who's gonna take it seriously.
I'm taking it seriously. Okay.
No, no. You're in a weird world. Okay. Here's here's the weird world.
You're in a world of serious intellectual. People're hanging out with straight.
You're also hanging out with Tim Dillon and me. I, and I love it,
but it's it's but the problem is like, you're, you're conflating these two.
Things, Joe. No, it Joe. I'm not that angry at Tim di. It's.
Not, I'm not that angry. Do you hear that? You heard the word,
you heard the word that that's a problem.
Well, you're not that angry at Carlos man. See it.
I'm not angry at him at all. I know. And I'm not angry.
Angry, Tim Dylan at I'm sad. I'm sad for him, Tim di.
Anyway, should be sad for Tim. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
He's one of the most important comedians of our time. Okay?
How dare you? How dare I, it took,
it gave me a moment to re to reflect and I realized something, which is,
I don't want to talk about this publicly.
I don't wanna say Dale JSON is the guy who buried one of
the most important innovations in economic theory, but yet you just did.
I just did. And that's what I'd just done. That's what I,
I realized by reviewing your history and revealing your seven years away from
the store. I don't want to be with Dale JSON.
I don't care about him.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I wanna be associated with gauge theoretical economics.
I see what you're saying.
And what I realized is I don't wanna be associated with the,
the that happened over something called the cyber Whit equations. What?
I just handed you,
one of the reasons I've held it back is that it very clearly gives an alternate
definition,
alternate motivation and derivation of the equations.
That revolutionized gauge theory,
which is what I was thinking about in around 19 87, 19 88.
And I've lived afraid of my own story because it's such an ugly
story.
The story of a guy who is not allowed to attend his own thesis defense to any
academician you hear, like,
what do you mean you weren't allowed to you present your thesis? No, no, no.
I was not allowed in the room of my own thesis defense.
So this is why Harvard wanted you to move outta state Harvard.
And I got into a thing because of that, because of a conflict,
because also of this, because of geometric unity, because I said,
I want to do physics.
And I have an idea about how physics goes and to be brutally honest,
I was technically underpowered. I am technically underpowered.
I was conceptually amazing. I was very creative, very generative, tons,
and tons of great ideas. I think I'm being honest on both friends,
technically under power. Okay.
I couldn't accept myself in this world of like, you know,
if you play classical music, everybody's technically brilliant.
There's no technically weak people in classical music. I was like a guy.
It was like a, it was like John Lee in the York orchestra of, you know,
the Cleveland symphony orchestra on one string and a guitar playing with some
weird syncopated rhythm, boom, boom, boom, boom. Going to shoot your head down.
Yeah, exactly. Mom said, let that daddy said,
let that boy boogie woogie. It's in him and it's gotta come out. That thing.
I'm scared of. Why are you scared of,
because it's my history because I don't want to go back into it.
I don't want to go back to being the guy begging
Dale JSON. Oh, pretty pleased with sugar and top.
Let me innovate your entire field.
I don't wanna go back to the Harvard department and, and say the words,
Clifford tabs. You had Gary tabs on your program.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> Clifford tubs was the guy who told me I had to move outta
state. Cliff. Was he related to Gary? Yeah, he is as a brother.
Yeah. He was the guy who held the secret seminar. And the thing is, is that I,
I'm not against the person in the story. I don't want to have it.
I don't want to be involved with him.
I want him to go and be successful and have a good career. But my story,
when I put forward those equations and he said,
they're insufficiently nonlinear. And he said,
self duality doesn't have anything to do with spinners.
Because if it did Nigel Hitchens, would've told us, okay,
not would've told he didn't say Hitchins he was wrong.
And then when I gave him the opportunity, he didn't say, you know what?
Eric Weinstein brought these equations up. And I told him no.
And that thing is like something I've held open the door.
He's now in his mid sixties. I was like,
you really couldn't just say, maybe I screwed up. You should go kick his. No,
why? I'm joking. I know <laugh>
well, but wait a second, Joe, such a Dick. <laugh>
such a Dick. I had to.
Come made some love. I thought you were gonna cry 30 seconds ago.
Do you have a tissue? No. Somewhere that, that, yeah, it was over there,
but that's this is the thing I've been running. What I realized through Tim.
It wasn't a question of being angry at Tim. Really?
I've been running away from my own story.
Just the way I don't like you associated with,
I haven't mentioned the guy who was the joke thief in this entire time.
Yeah. I understand what.
You're saying. Right? It's like, why are you?
And he entangled in this story because he has nothing to do with your life.
It's okay.
It doesn't bother me that I'm entangled with him.
What bothers me that I'm entangled with this stuff?
Um, I know what you're saying.
Because I wanna be joyous.
I want to produce pot positive things that uplift us that give
us a hope of breaking, like the Einsteinian speed limit. You know,
if this is wrong, I wanna know mm-hmm <affirmative> I think it's right.
I think with all my flaws and all my failings and being 25 years outta the
field,
I believe that this story is gonna be fixed by people who are trying to shoot
it down. They're gonna say, holy. I think there's something.
Here. Well, now we're gonna know. Right? I think I'm hoping you released.
It today on geometric unity.org.do.
And go to pull that up.
jamie.com and you can watch all the videos that we didn't show you catch new
episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on watch back catalog
JRE videos on Spotify, including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience
on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.